// Copyright (c) 2007-2020 Khronos Group. This work is licensed under a
// Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License; see
// http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

:data-uri:
:icons: font
include::../config/attribs.txt[]

= OpenCL Reference Pages

image::OpenCL_Logo120.jpg[OpenCL,float="right",align="center"]

OpenCL (Open Computing Language) is an open royalty-free standard for
general purpose parallel programming across CPUs, GPUs and other processors,
giving software developers portable and efficient access to the power of
these heterogeneous processing platforms.

OpenCL supports a wide range of applications, ranging from embedded and
consumer software to HPC solutions, through a low-level, high-performance,
portable abstraction. By creating an efficient, close-to-the-metal
programming interface, OpenCL will form the foundation layer of a parallel
computing ecosystem of platform-independent tools, middleware and
applications.

OpenCL consists of an API for coordinating parallel computation across
heterogeneous processors; and a cross-platform programming language with a
well-specified computation environment.

The OpenCL standard:

 * Supports both data- and task-based parallel programming models
 * Utilizes a subset of ISO C99 with extensions for parallelism
 * Defines consistent numerical requirements based on IEEE 754
 * Defines a configuration profile for handheld and embedded devices
 * Efficiently interoperates with OpenGL, OpenGL ES, and other graphics APIs

The specification is divided into a core specification that any OpenCL
compliant implementation must support; a handheld/embedded profile which
relaxes the OpenCL compliance requirements for handheld and embedded
devices; and a set of optional extensions that are likely to move into the
core specification in later revisions of the OpenCL specification.


== Reference Page Sources

Khronos publishes the OpenCL 2.2 reference pages in the
https://www.github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Registry/tree/master/sdk/2.2/docs/[OpenCL-Registry
repository].
Unlike reference pages for earlier versions of OpenCL, the sources for these
pages are in Asciidoctor format, and are maintained in the
https://www.github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Docs[OpenCL-Docs repository]. If
you encounter problems with these pages, please file an issue in
OpenCL-Docs.


include::footer.txt[]
